this week in New York State Board of
Elections that canceled that States
primary calling it quote a beauty
contest
former Bernie Sanders campaign
representatives had very strong
reactions to that move and in a somewhat
surprising move some Sanders campaign
officials have formed a super PAC
supporting Bernie's former rival Joe
Biden former national co-chair for the
Bernie Sanders presidential campaign and
great friend of the show Nina Turner
joins us now via Skype with her reaction
to both stories great to seein Anna
let's start with New York what is your
reaction to their move to cancel the
primary and why do you think that they
decided to do this well in the democracy
and the Democrats that control that
staining have really no standing to talk
about anybody suppressing the vote they
did that in one fell swoop they decide
it because they have the power to take
Xfinity Bernie Sanders off the ballot
thereby depriving New Yorkers the
opportunity to have choice but even
deeper than that it's not not bad enough
we know that at a how 90% of the
counting in that state have election
down ballot so the fact that this man
that this may be linked to corona or the
beauty contest is really not the truth
there are elections of other offices
that have to go on whether or not there
is a presidential election or not this
is pure unadulterated power rather is
voter suppression and it's also not only
will they have a chilling effect on
democracy can ripple out of control
across the country so people want the
power
no matter what part is there anything it
did all the trigger to decide hope some
of us go cancel your primary today just
because I don't like who's on the ballot
but it also has an impact for those down
ballot races many progressives are
running against a corporatist type folks
who are on the ballot so this is two
prong one to hurt progressives a
delegate for the convention at the DNC
and also to make it harder for
progressives who are running down about
Sony no I mean this has sparked a bigger
conversation also about Governor Cuomo
because of course there's some people
who are dissatisfied with Vice President
Joe Biden they say Oh put in Andrew
Cuomo but these type of tactics reveal
kind of
he's dealt with some of the left
movement through a long career do you
think that that's accurate that that's
how he kind of used the progressive left
Andrew Cuomo was absolutely let me check
the record that's how we got receipts on
they just talk to anybody that's part of
the Working Families Party and they will
tell you how the governor certainly has
not been fair towards them or any type
of progressives I mean this is a
governor that sided with that kept
Republicans you know in control in the
state legislature think about that in
the great state of New York and so
Democratic Party needs to get its house
in order
I want to care for the DNC about this
just flat-out cold-blooded suppression
of hope it is easy for us to talk
against the Republicans they make it
very easy because they are the ultimate
voters suppress what suppressors in my
opinion and opinion opinion of others
but you cannot call out the Republicans
without calling out the Democrats and
this is absolutely a disgrace maybe is
an abuse of power it is wrong yeah once
I win senator Sanders suspended his
campaign he said he wanted to remain on
the ballot for exactly the reason that
you indicated to gather delegates to the
convention just go into detail a little
bit on why that is significant why does
that matter it matters because delegates
are how we get to a certain to finish
threshold to be able to have voice on
both the flat the platform committee and
the Rules Committee and we have to hit a
25 percent Freshco threshold also it
also helps that if the minor for
minority of force so you or the person
in the group that's in the minority will
have a chance to up against the
majority and take things to the floor by
stripping Sanders from being able to be
on the ballot senator Sanders will be on
the ballot you take away that power that
ability you make it harder for us to
garner enough delegates to be able to
force a progressive fight on the floor
of the DNC
during the convention where there's the
virtual convention or in person but it
takes away the ability for the
minorities voice to be heard imagine
that the Democratic Party is doing that
in the 21st century
and Nina at the same time we've also
seen some calls after your former
colleague Jeff Weaver he announced a
super PAC in order to try and direct
progressive voters in order back to
abide another down ballot Democrats
given the rhetoric that senator Sanders
directed at super PACs that's caused
some consternation that I've seen
amongst the left and we just want to get
your reaction to that news what do you
make of it rightfully so I mean I don't
support the creation of that super PAC
senator certainly does not support the
creation of that Senate super pack
either we are trying to get big money
excessive big money out of politics and
so this does that movement know that
important to be so close you know to the
Sanders movement is really heartbreaking
I cannot tell you how many details I've
gotten email text messages people who
happen to have my phone number
calling very much upset about this move
but you know everybody is to choose
their path and so that is their right to
do even though there are many of us in
the movement do not agree with you so
what do we do we continue to forge a
progressive fight against not only
tactics like that but continue the
mission of this movement which is to
live and get better for people than what
they have right now and really to change
the face of politics and to get excess
of big money out of politics forming
super PACs in that way do not hope that
furthermore progressives on the burning
left most of them are not going to be
supportive of that action it will
probably most likely not donate to that
high because it is the antithesis of
what the Sanders campaign was fighting
for it dawns on every single heating of
that campaign everything that we were
fighting to transform it to change so I
stomp oak say in the country that dog
well and in fact the greatest power of
the senator Sanders campaign wasn't
necessarily him himself although we all
have a lot of respect for him but as
those millions of people that stood
behind him that chipped in their dollars
that's what gave the movement real power
what do you think the future of those
lists and that movement is or should be
my god I hope that that list is not
all into the wrong hands that list
definitely belongs to the movement
itself those people who domain me they
don't maybe they're laughs they donated
what little that they had because they
believe in a fish a vision of a better
today building towards a better tomorrow
they believed they could shake up the
status quo do a new thing in the United
States of America so it is my hope that
that enlist no 2016 the senator did not
give that list to the DNC and it's
certainly my hope that in 2020 he does
not give that list to the DNC because
the people who donated to this campaign
or donating not for business as usual
they were donating for a feather bigger
vision things that will change in their
lives in the lives of the people that
they love often say all that we love is
online so that list should be either
cultivated by the senator in another way
or given to leaders who are willing to
continue that fight that he had forged
in the way that he was born in it and
increasing that fight in in ways that
will continue to motivate people to be
the change they want to see in the world
as Mahatma Gandhi once said yeah I think
if he gave the list the dance a there
would be some upset about that great to
see you as always you thank you
next the fun rising when will bide and
finally make his personal papers public
and will they reveal anything about his
interactions with Tara Reid New York
Times media calmness Ben Smith is gonna
weigh in on that and some other things
on rising continues